# Introduction
This document provides a step-by-step walkthrough for installing Ubuntu Server, configuring a static IP and DNS servers with Netplan, joining the server to the domain, adding domain admins to the sudoers group, and installing and configuring Wazuh for security monitoring in the lab environment.
## Installing Ubuntu Server
1. Insert the Ubuntu Server installation media ISO from the ESXi storage pool and boot the server from it.
2. Select **Install Ubuntu Server** and press **Enter**.
3. Choose to configure the network manually for a **static IP configuration**.
4. Select your preferred storage method and complete the disk setup.
5. Select the desired software packages or opt for a minimal installation.
6. Create a user account and set a password.
7. After installation, reboot the server and log in.
## Configuring a Static IP
We will need to configure a static IP address so that when we deploy our Wazuh agents later on, they will always refer to this Ubuntu server as the Wazuh manager. To edit our network configuration, we will use Netplan.
1. Find your NIC name with **ifconfig**. Mine is ens160.
2. sudo vim /etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml
3. Configure the file to show as follows:
-      network:
         ethernets:
           ens160: #This is the name of my NIC as designated by Ubuntu, yours may be different
             dhcp4: false #Disables DHCP so that we can manually an IP address
             addresses: [192.168.1.xx/24] #Select the IP address you want for this server. We will use it again when deploying the Wazuh agents
             nameservers:
               addresses: [192.168.1.xx, 8.8.8.8] #Use the address of our domain controller, which has DNS functionality. Also included Google's nameserver when connecting to the internet
             routes:
               - to: default
                 via: 192.168.1.x #Using the router address
4. Apply changes with **sudo netplan apply**.
5. Verify the IP address is correct with **ifconfig**.
6. In order to communicate directly to your home router, and ultimately the internet, you may need to manually add a route to the routing table in Ubuntu. Do this with **sudo ip route add default via IPADDRESS dev ens160**. Replace ens160 with the interface name you determined earlier.
7. Verify connectivity with the domain controller with **ping -c 3 IPADDRESS**. Ensure to replace **IPADDRESS** with the address of your domain controller.
8. Verify connectivity to the internet with **ping -c 3 8.8.8.8**

If there is proper conenctivity, we can move on to adding this server to our domain.
## Joining the Domain
We need to join this server to the domain so that user accounts and domain resources will be accessible.
1. Install necessary packages for domain integration:
-      sudo apt install realmd sssd sssd-tools adcli
3. We can use realm to discover (find) our domain:
-      sudo realm discover DOMAINNAME
5. After we have determined our domain can be found, we will join the domain:
-      sudo realm join DOMAINNAME -U administrator
7. To check if the server successfully joined the domain, use:
-      realm list
## Adding the Domain Admins group to the Sudoers group
By default, Windows domain admins will not have **administrator** privileges within Linux. We must manually add them to the **sudoers** group. We must use a feature called **visudo** to edit the appropriate file, **/etc/sudoers**. Although there are other editors available, such as **vim** or **nano**, visudo is required as it is safer, providing basic syntax error checks and does not allow the file to be saved if it has detected any errors.
1. Edit the sudoers file:
-      sudo visudo
3. Input the following:
-      %domain\ admins@domainname.com ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

It's that simple. We should now verify that the domain admins group has been added, and then try to login to a domain admin account and test sudo functionality.
1. Login to a desired domain account:
-      su - username@domainname.com
3. Test root privileges with a package update command:
-      sudo apt update

If it works, then we have confirmed basic root privilege functionality.
## Installing and Configuring Wazuh
1. Execute the following command to install required packages:
-      sudo apt-get install gnupg apt-transport-https curl
2. Import the Wazuh GPG key for package verification:
-      curl -s https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH | gpg --no-default-keyring --keyring gnupg-ring:/usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg --import
3. Ensure proper permissions for the GPG key:
-      sudo chmod 644 /usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg
4. Add the Wazuh APT repository to your sources list:
-      echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg] https://packages.wazuh.com/4.x/apt/ stable main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list
5. Update the APT package index to include the new Wazuh repository:
-      sudo apt update
6. Install the Wazuh manager:
-      sudo apt install wazuh-manager
7. Edit the Wazuh manager configuration:
-      sudo vim /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
8. Enable the Wazuh manager service to start automatically on boot:
-      sudo systemctl enable wazuh-manager
9. Start the Wazuh manager service:
-      sudo systemctl start wazuh-manager
10. Check the status of the Wazuh manager to ensure it is running:
-      sudo systemctl status wazuh-manager
Enter the IP address of the server hosting Wazuh into a browser to verify access to the Wazuh dashboard.
